Adds documentation for Agentic Search (#10786)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _vector-search/ai-search/agentic-search.md

---
layout: default
title: Agentic search
parent: AI search
nav_order: 30
has_children: false
---

# Agentic Search
Introduced 3.2
{: .label .label-purple }

Agentic search lets users ask questions in natural language and have OpenSearch plan and execute the retrieval automatically. A preconfigured **agent** reads the question, plans the search, and returns relevant results.

**PREREQUISITE**<br>

> Before using using agentic search, you must configure an agent with QueryPlanningTool. For more information, see..

Author: Need to add page link of https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/10785 once the PR is merged

---
layout: default
title: Agentic search
parent: AI search
nav_order: 30
has_children: false
---

> # Agentic Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Agentic search
```

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, join the discussion on the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).    
{: .warning}

Introduced 3.2
{: .label .label-purple }

Agentic search lets users ask questions in natural language and have OpenSearch plan and execute the retrieval automatically. A preconfigured **agent** reads the question, plans the search, and returns relevant results.

> **PREREQUISITE**<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Prerequisite**<br>
```

> Before using using agentic search, you must configure an agent with QueryPlanningTool. For more information, see..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using agentic search, you must configure an agent with the QueryPlanningTool. For more information, see..
```

## Configuring semantic search

> 1. [Enable the agentic search feature flag](#step-1-enable-the-agentic-search-feature-flag)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Enable the agentic search feature flag](#step-1-enable-the-agentic-search-feature-flag).
```

2. [Create an index for ingestion](#step-2-create-an-index-for-ingestion).
3. [Ingest documents into the index](#step-3-ingest-documents-into-the-index).
4. [Create a search pipeline](#step-4-create-a-search-pipeline).
5. [Search the index](#step-5-search-the-index).

### Step 1: Enable the agentic search feature flag

> Because this is an experimental feature in 3.2 release, you must enable the feature flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this is an experimental feature in version 3.2, you must enable the feature flag:
```

```json
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent" : {
    "plugins.neural_search.agentic_search_enabled": true,
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 2: Create an index for ingestion

> Let's create an index for ingestion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an index for ingestion:
```

```json
PUT /iris-index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "petal_length_in_cm": {
        "type": "float"
      },
      "petal_width_in_cm": {
        "type": "float"
      },
      "sepal_length_in_cm": {
        "type": "float"
      },
      "sepal_width_in_cm": {
        "type": "float"
      },
      "species": {
        "type": "text",
        "fields": {
          "keyword": {
            "type": "keyword",
            "ignore_above": 256
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 3: Ingest documents into the index

To ingest documents into the index created in the previous step, send the following requests:

```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index": "iris-index", "_id": "1" } }
{ "petal_length_in_cm": 1.4, "petal_width_in_cm": 0.2, "sepal_length_in_cm": 5.1, "sepal_width_in_cm": 3.5, "species": "setosa" }
{ "index": { "_index": "iris-index", "_id": "2" } }
{ "petal_length_in_cm": 4.5, "petal_width_in_cm": 1.5, "sepal_length_in_cm": 6.4, "sepal_width_in_cm": 2.9, "species": "versicolor" }
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 4: Create a search pipeline

> Create a search pipeline with agentic query transalator search request processor, and pass the agent id created with QueryPlanningTool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a search pipeline with an agentic query translator search request processor and pass the agent ID created with the QueryPlanningTool:
```

```json
PUT _search/pipeline/agentic-pipeline
{
     "request_processors": [
        {
            "agentic_query_translator": {
                "agent_id": "-E2Av5gBrRE4_QBCgKwl"
            }
        }
     ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 5: Search the index

> To perform agentic search, use the agentic query clause with your question.

Reviewer: Let's state this a bit more clearly/precisely. What question? We haven't referenced the nature of the question/queries anywhere, which should probably be mentioned earlier. What is the user searching for/trying to do?

Author: Added `natural language question`

> The following example request uses a agentic query to search for a natural language question:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example request uses an agentic query to search for a natural language question:
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 116: Does the query specifically search for a natural language question, or is it searching for something else?

Author: natural language question

```json
GET iris-index/_search?search_pipeline=agentic-pipeline
{
    "query": {
        "agentic": {
            "query_text": "List all the flowers present",
            "query_fields": ["species", "petal_length_in_cm"]
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The request has the below fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request contains the following fields:
```

> 1. query_text: The natural language question

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `query_text`: The natural language question.
```

> 2. query_fields (optional): A list of the fields that the agent should consider when generating the search query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `query_fields` (optional): A list of fields that the agent should consider when generating the search query.
```

> The agentic search request executes the agent with QueryPlanningTool and sends the natural language question, along with index mapping and a default prompt to an LLM to generate a OpenSearch DSL query. The LLM returned DSL query is then executed as a search request in OpenSearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agentic search request executes the agent with the QueryPlanningTool and sends the natural language question, along with index mapping and a default prompt, to a large language model (LLM) to generate an OpenSearch DSL query. The returned DSL query is then executed as a search request in OpenSearch:
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 135: Either "an" or "the" should precede "index mapping". DSL needs to be defined.

```json
"hits": {
        "total": {
            "value": 2,
            "relation": "eq"
        },
        "max_score": 1.0,
        "hits": [
            {
                "_index": "iris-index",
                "_id": "1",
                "_score": 1.0,
                "_source": {
                    "petal_length_in_cm": 1.4,
                    "petal_width_in_cm": 0.2,
                    "sepal_length_in_cm": 5.1,
                    "sepal_width_in_cm": 3.5,
                    "species": "setosa"
                }
            },
            {
                "_index": "iris-index",
                "_id": "2",
                "_score": 1.0,
                "_source": {
                    "petal_length_in_cm": 4.5,
                    "petal_width_in_cm": 1.5,
                    "sepal_length_in_cm": 6.4,
                    "sepal_width_in_cm": 2.9,
                    "species": "versicolor"
                }
            }
        ]
    }
```

> 

Reviewer: Should we include some text here indicating what is shown in/by the response?

## Next steps

> This is an experimental feature. Please follow https://github.com/opensearch-project/neural-search/issues/1479 and https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/issues/4005 for the future enhancements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an experimental feature. See [[RFC] Design for Agentic Search #1479](https://github.com/opensearch-project/neural-search/issues/1479) and [[RFC] Agentic Search in OpenSearch #4005](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/issues/4005) for information about future enhancements. 
```

---
layout: default
title: Agentic search
parent: AI search
nav_order: 30
has_children: false
---

# Agentic search
This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, join the discussion on the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).    
{: .warning}

Introduced 3.2
{: .label .label-purple }

Agentic search lets users ask questions in natural language and have OpenSearch plan and execute the retrieval automatically. A preconfigured **agent** reads the question, plans the search, and returns relevant results.

**Prerequisite**<br>

> Before using agentic search, you must configure an agent with the QueryPlanningTool. For more information, see..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using agentic search, you must configure an agent with the [`QueryPlanningTool`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/agents-tools/tools/query-planning-tool/).
```
